README.md, before:

# deadlist

[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/nazwr/deadlist/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/nazwr/deadlist?branch=main)

A client for downloading Grateful Dead recordings hosted by archive.org.

With Deadlist, you can download audio files in any of the formats available, regardless of if they have been marked as "Stream Only". Files will download into a 'shows' folder in the location deadlist was executed from.

## Install
`gem install deadlist`

## Usage
### Download a show in mp3
`deadlist -f mp3 -i gd1977-05-09.123480.sbd.miller.flac16`

### Full list of arguments

| Name              | Arguments     | Usage                                                      |
| ----------------- | ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Format (required) | -f, --format  | Format for track downloads, typically .mp3, .ogg or .flac  |
| ID (required)     | -i, --id      | Identifier of show to be downloaded.                       |
| Help              | -h, --help    | Show help documentation                                    |
| Version           | -v, --version | Prints version of DeadList being run                       |


## How do I find the identifier of the show I want to download?
* IDs can be found in the details section at the bottom of the page (just above reviews), alongside 'Lineage' and 'Transferred by' etc.
* ID's can also be found in the web-address of the archive.org page, just after `/details/`
  * Given a show `https://archive.org/details/gd1977-05-09.123480.sbd.miller.flac16`
  * Then the identifier is `gd1977-05-09.123480.sbd.miller.flac16`

## Development

### Setup
DeadList requires Ruby >= 2.7.0. To set up the development environment:

```bash
bundle install
```

### Running Tests
DeadList uses Cucumber for BDD testing. To run the full test suite:

```bash
./script/test
```

Or run Cucumber directly:

```bash
bundle exec cucumber features/
```

To run a specific feature:

```bash
bundle exec cucumber features/argument_parsing.feature
```

### Test Coverage
Current test coverage includes core functionality of DeadList and should be run when updating or adding new features.

### Viewing Coverage Reports
After running tests, view the coverage report locally:

```bash
open coverage/index.html  # macOS
xdg-open coverage/index.html  # Linux
```

Coverage is also automatically tracked on [Coveralls](https://coveralls.io/github/nazwr/deadlist) for all pull requests and main branch pushes.

## Releasing

### Working on a New Release
When working on a new release, its best to have a release/x.x.x branch to work from as releases should build from main. Feature branches should be worked on under the release branch until they are ready to be released through the process described below.

### Creating a New Release

To publish a new version of DeadList to RubyGems:

1. **Update the version** in `lib/deadlist/version.rb`:
   ```ruby
   class DeadList
     VERSION = '1.2.0'  # Update to your new version
   end
   ```

2. **Commit and push your changes**:
   ```bash
   git add lib/deadlist/version.rb
   git commit -m "Bump version to 1.2.0"
   git push origin main
   ```

3. **Create and push a version tag**:
   ```bash
   git tag v1.2.0
   git push origin v1.2.0
   ```

4. **GitHub Actions automatically handles the rest**:
   - Builds the gem with `gem build deadlist.gemspec`
   - Publishes to RubyGems using your `RUBYGEMS_API_KEY` secret
   - The new version will be available via `gem install deadlist`

**Note:** The tag must start with `v` (e.g., `v1.2.0`) to trigger the publish workflow.

Commit message:

added test for output directory option, added logic to handle optional path being passed through --directory

README.md, after:

# deadlist

[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/nazwr/deadlist/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/nazwr/deadlist?branch=main)

A client for downloading Grateful Dead recordings hosted by archive.org.

With Deadlist, you can download audio files in any of the formats available, regardless of if they have been marked as "Stream Only". Files will download into a 'shows' folder in the location deadlist was executed from.

## Install
`gem install deadlist`

## Usage
### Download a show in mp3
`deadlist -f mp3 -i gd1977-05-09.123480.sbd.miller.flac16`

### Full list of arguments

| Name              | Arguments     | Usage                                                      |
| ----------------- | ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Format (required) | -f, --format  | Format for track downloads, typically .mp3, .ogg or .flac  |
| ID (required)     | -i, --id      | Identifier of show to be downloaded.                       |
| Output Directory. | -o, --output  | Location download should be saved to. Defaults to ./shows  |
| Help              | -h, --help    | Show help documentation                                    |
| Version           | -v, --version | Prints version of DeadList being run                       |


## How do I find the identifier of the show I want to download?
* IDs can be found in the details section at the bottom of the page (just above reviews), alongside 'Lineage' and 'Transferred by' etc.
* ID's can also be found in the web-address of the archive.org page, just after `/details/`
  * Given a show `https://archive.org/details/gd1977-05-09.123480.sbd.miller.flac16`
  * Then the identifier is `gd1977-05-09.123480.sbd.miller.flac16`

## Development

### Setup
DeadList requires Ruby >= 2.7.0. To set up the development environment:

```bash
bundle install
```

### Running Tests
DeadList uses Cucumber for BDD testing. To run the full test suite:

```bash
./script/test
```

Or run Cucumber directly:

```bash
bundle exec cucumber features/
```

To run a specific feature:

```bash
bundle exec cucumber features/argument_parsing.feature
```

### Test Coverage
Current test coverage includes core functionality of DeadList and should be run when updating or adding new features.

### Viewing Coverage Reports
After running tests, view the coverage report locally:

```bash
open coverage/index.html  # macOS
xdg-open coverage/index.html  # Linux
```

Coverage is also automatically tracked on [Coveralls](https://coveralls.io/github/nazwr/deadlist) for all pull requests and main branch pushes.

## Releasing

### Working on a New Release
When working on a new release, its best to have a release/x.x.x branch to work from as releases should build from main. Feature branches should be worked on under the release branch until they are ready to be released through the process described below.

### Creating a New Release

To publish a new version of DeadList to RubyGems:

1. **Update the version** in `lib/deadlist/version.rb`:
   ```ruby
   class DeadList
     VERSION = '1.2.0'  # Update to your new version
   end
   ```

2. **Commit and push your changes**:
   ```bash
   git add lib/deadlist/version.rb
   git commit -m "Bump version to 1.2.0"
   git push origin main
   ```

3. **Create and push a version tag**:
   ```bash
   git tag v1.2.0
   git push origin v1.2.0
   ```

4. **GitHub Actions automatically handles the rest**:
   - Builds the gem with `gem build deadlist.gemspec`
   - Publishes to RubyGems using your `RUBYGEMS_API_KEY` secret
   - The new version will be available via `gem install deadlist`

**Note:** The tag must start with `v` (e.g., `v1.2.0`) to trigger the publish workflow.
